S-392, measured 2026-09-12 against ~/source/pec-services (82 members with source,
2447 Java files, read-only walk — NOT a re-enrolment). Produced by
`measure_the_one_hop_forwarding_residue_over_the_reference_workspace`; re-run it
with LOGOS_REF_WORKSPACE set to reproduce every figure below verbatim.

  CR-121 CRA-05 IS FALSIFIED ON PRODUCTION SOURCE, UNDER BOTH READINGS
  OF FR-WS-23 AC1.

  Floor, declared 2026-09-12T12:33:41Z before any measurement code existed:
  >= 7 of the 13 production publish sites resolve at one hop, within their own
  build module. Measured: 0 under the criterion as written, 6 under the most
  favourable reading available. S-393 and S-394 stay UNPLANNED; FR-WS-23 is
  marked WITHDRAWN IN PLACE, never deleted, per its own GATED banner.


AC1 — THE POPULATIONS, PRODUCTION AND TEST, NEVER SUMMED

  population        main   test
  publish sites       13     41
  client sites*        4      0

  arm             tree   candidates  resolved
  broker-publish  main           13         0
  broker-publish  test            3         2
  client-call     main            4         1
  client-call     test            0         0

  * gate-admitted client-call sites carrying at least one bare-parameter
    operand, after the CR-115 agreement rule has already refused them for no key.

Four independent reconciliations against the record, all exact, which is why the
zero above is a measurement and not a broken walk: 13 main / 41 test publish
sites is S-365's `broker/main 13` and `broker/test 41`; 52 files carrying a
publish site is the figure `plugins/java/queries/brokers.scm` records beside its
54 sites; 2447 Java files is the S-355 and S-374 java row; and 4 production
client-call parameter operands is exactly the "plus 4 Java method parameters"
S-365 recorded as part of its 30-site no-key residue. The broker TEST arm's 3
candidates are 41 sites less the 38 that carry a literal topic — S-365's 38
IT-class admits, in their complement.


AC2 — THE RESIDUE, AND THE TWO MECHANISMS THAT PRODUCE IT

  broker-publish / main, 13 candidates:
      7  an in-module call site passes a parameter (2+ hops)
      6  an in-module call site's argument resolves to nothing

These are two different faults and only one of them is about the estate's Java.

  (a) SEVEN sites need a SECOND HOP IN PRODUCTION SOURCE ITSELF. CRA-05 asserts
      the topic is "syntactically present at the wrapper's call sites". For
      these seven it is not: there are TWO wrapper layers. A thin
      `XxxKafkaProducer.send(key, payload)` in src/main calls
      `KafkaProducer.sendMessage(key, payload, topic)` forwarding ITS OWN
      parameter, and the topic literal lives one level above that again.
      Named, with the src/main call site that decides it:

        archive-listener-adapter        ArchiveEventKafkaProducer.java:16
        deprecated-mailbox-core/manager DelayedMessageKafkaProducer.java:23
        pecserver-facade                PecServerOperationKafkaProducer.java:23
        archive-manager                 DelayedMessageKafkaProducer.java:21
        mailbox-manager                 DelayedMessageKafkaProducer.java:23
        official-log-export-job-worker  OfficialLogOutcomeKafkaProducer.java:17
        official-log-export-job-manager DelayedMessageKafkaProducer.java:19

      7 of 13 is 54%. The floor fixed the maximum tolerable residue at 6 of 13
      (46%), which is the "declared share" CR-121 §7's slope risk row requires.
      This mechanism alone clears it, and it is not reachable by narrowing the
      agreement rule, tightening the classifier, or resolving more keys — the
      information is two call frames away and FR-WS-23 fixes the bound at one
      "with no recursion and no fixpoint", in its acceptance criteria, on the
      stated ground that logos-core ships no dataflow.

  (b) SIX sites ARE exactly CRA-05's shape, and are refused only by TEST-TREE
      call sites. Every one resolves under the main-only reading, and every one
      resolves to a @ConfigurationProperties key:

        archive-api                spring.kafka.topics.archiveCommands     2 sites
        archive-api-logiclens-fork spring.kafka.topics.archiveCommands     2 sites
        deprecated-mailbox-core/api spring.kafka.topics.mailboxCommands    4 sites
        official-log-export-api    spring.kafka.topics.exportJobsRequests  1 site
        mailbox-api                spring.kafka.topics.mailboxCommands     8 sites
        archive-feeder             spring.kafka.topics.archiveEventsQueue  2 sites

      What blocks them is FR-WS-23 AC1 read literally — "every call site of that
      method within its build module". The build module contains the test tree,
      and the test tree contains Mockito stubs:
      `doNothing().when(kafkaProducer).sendMessage(any(), any(), any())`. A
      `Mockito.any()` is a syntactic call site with an operand that resolves to
      nothing, so under the criterion as written it refuses the whole method.
      This is a defect in the criterion, not in the estate: a stub is not a
      publish, and a rule that lets one veto a real coupling admits nothing on
      any estate that mocks its producer.

  SENSITIVITY, and why the falsification does not rest on which reading is
  chosen. Headline (every in-module call site): 0 of 13. Main-only (agreement
  taken over src/main call sites only): 6 of 13. The floor is 7. BOTH ARE BELOW
  IT. A reader who thinks AC1 was written too literally, and a reader who thinks
  it was written correctly, reach the same verdict — which is the property a
  blocking gate needs and the reason both figures are reported rather than one
  being chosen.

  CONSEQUENCE FOR CR-121 §6. Its criterion reads "the 13 production publish
  sites resolve, and Producer nodes rise from 0 to at least 13". The ceiling this
  mechanism can reach, with AC1 narrowed to production call sites and every other
  judgement resolved favourably, is 6. Not 13, and not 7.

  The other arms, reported and carrying no floor:
    broker/test     2 of 3 resolve; 1 refuses because its in-module call sites
                    disagree. A test-tree yield is never summed with production's
                    — averaging the two trees is how CR-117 looked validated at
                    38 of 54 while being false on the population it was written
                    over (Sprint 65).
    client-call/main 1 of 4 resolves. 2 of the remaining 3 have no call site
                    anywhere in the estate, and 1 needs a second hop. The client
                    arm carries no floor: CR-121 attaches no promised figure to
                    it, and its only nearby number — "roughly 8 sites" — is the
                    overlay-union decision (§8), a different mechanism which
                    CR-121 itself records as a correctness decision and not a
                    coverage one.


AC3 — CAN THE EXISTING `Calls` LEDGER ANSWER THE HOP? (CRA-06)

  files run through `extract::extract`      2447
  `Calls` rows recorded (denominator)      45625
  rows naming a wanted method                773
  distinct (caller declaration, method)      773
  in-module call sites observed              141
  call sites the dedup collapses away         17
  call sites in files the ledger misses        0
  methods whose bare name is ambiguous         7
  ledger fields carrying the operand           0

  THE ANSWER IS HALF YES, AND THE HALF THAT IS NO IS THE HALF THE HOP NEEDS.

  The DIRECTION is answerable. 773 rows name a wanted method, the file set they
  point at covers every syntactic call site this walk found (the "call sites in
  files the ledger misses" row is 0), and no new index is needed to ask "which
  declarations call this method".

  The OPERAND is not carried, and this is measured rather than read off
  `RefFact`'s field list: not one of the 45625 rows carries a text equal to a
  value the hop resolved. `RefFact` holds (source, target, alias, form, kind,
  line, relation) and no argument, so every one of the 141 in-module call sites
  had to be re-parsed from source to read its positional argument. CRA-06 asks
  whether the lookup is answerable "without a new index"; the honest answer is
  that the lookup is, and the READ is not.

  Two further costs the ledger imposes on the rule as written:

  1. DEDUP HIDES CALL SITES. The ledger keys on
     (source, target, form, kind, relation) and ignores `line`, so two calls of
     one wrapper inside one declaration are ONE row. 17 of the 141 in-module call
     sites — 12% — are invisible to it. FR-WS-23 AC1 requires EVERY call site to
     agree; a rule implemented against the ledger alone would check a subset and
     report agreement it had not established. On this estate that would have
     turned at least one refusal into a false admit.

  2. THE TARGET IS A BARE NAME. 773 rows name a wanted method but only 141 call
     sites are in a candidate's own module, and 7 wanted names are declared by
     two or more `method_declaration`s inside one build module. `sendMessage` is
     not a distinctive name. Binding by name plus arity, as this measurement
     does, is a heuristic; the ledger offers nothing stronger.


AC4 — THE FLOOR, AND WHAT FOLLOWS

  Declared 2026-09-12T12:33:41Z, before any measurement code existed, in
  docs/planning/sprints/.pending/S-392-T1-floor.txt and reproduced byte-for-byte
  as forwarding_floor.txt beside this file, because .pending/ is gitignored.
  `the_floor_is_the_one_declared_before_the_run` parses the figure out of that
  text and compares it to ONE_HOP_FLOOR, so the constant cannot be edited to
  clear a future run without the declaration being edited too.

  FALSIFIED: 0 (and 6 under the most favourable reading) against a floor of 7.
  S-393 and S-394 stay UNPLANNED. FR-WS-23 is marked WITHDRAWN IN PLACE with its
  criteria shown as superseded — the procedure FR-WS-10 and FR-WS-18 demonstrate
  — and is never deleted.

  WAS THE FLOOR BADLY CHOSEN? It is not revised after the run, and it stands
  unchanged. But the question deserves an answer rather than a silence: no, and
  the result does not turn on it. A floor of 6 would have been cleared by the
  main-only reading and by nothing else; a floor of 1 would have been cleared by
  it too. What decides this gate is not the threshold but mechanism (a): seven of
  thirteen sites hold their topic two call frames away, and no choice of floor
  between 7 and 13 changes that, nor does any reading of AC1.

  NON-VACUITY. The run is not a walk that walked nothing: 82 members, 2447 Java
  files, 52 files carrying a publish site, 13 production publish sites (the
  enumerated population, not fewer), 45625 `Calls` rows, and every site the
  authority recogniser found joined to an AST node (sites_without_a_node = 0).
  Each is asserted, and each failure is VOID rather than FALSIFIED.

  THE GENERALITY CAVEAT declared before the run — that a pass resting on one
  wrapper method or one member licenses little — is moot here: nothing resolved.
  It is reported anyway, by the run, because it was declared.


AC5 — THE MEASURED COST OF THE HOP

  enumerate the sites (what the arm does today)   8.9 s   over 2447 files
  hop, whole estate                               4.9 s   over 2447 files
  hop, ledger-targeted files only               982 ms    over  366 files
  amortised per candidate (targeted)          49 085 us   over   20 candidates

  The targeted figure is the one a perf reconciliation should use: 982 ms is the
  parse-and-resolve cost of opening the 366 files the `Calls` ledger names as
  callers of a wanted method, on an 84-member estate, single-threaded, in a debug
  build. It is 15% of the 2447-file naive pass, so the ledger's direction lookup
  pays for itself even though it cannot supply the operand.

  Three caveats, stated because a figure without them is not usable:
  * IO IS EXCLUDED. Sources are read before any timer starts, so these are
    parse-and-resolve figures. CR-121 CRA-07 asserts the extract pass has already
    read those files; if that holds, excluding IO is the right model, and if it
    does not, add the estate's read cost.
  * DEBUG BUILD, single-threaded. A release build and the existing rayon walk
    both move this down; neither was measured, so neither is claimed.
  * AMORTISED, NOT MARGINAL. The per-candidate figure divides a fixed 366-file
    parse by 20 candidates; it falls as candidates rise and must not be
    multiplied out to project a larger estate.


METHOD, AND WHY NO RE-ENROLMENT. The reference workspace is ground truth for
several of this sprint's measured criteria and re-enrolling it is a destructive
84-member operation (sprint-66 §7). This measurement walks the corpus read-only
through the production `extract::extract` pass and the production plugin queries,
and touches no `.logos` store. Nothing under ~/source/pec-services was written.

WHAT IS NOT MEASURED HERE, stated rather than left to be discovered:
  * NON-JAVA ARMS. The header publish form is expressible only in Java's
    grammar, and the parameter-slot navigation below reads Java node kinds. Go,
    Python and TypeScript client-call sites are outside this measurement. On this
    estate that costs nothing measurable — S-365 recorded the client arm's
    parameter residue as 4 Java sites — but it is a scope, not a zero.
  * MEMBER COUNT. 82, not the estate's 84 clones: a member appears here only if
    it holds a file the plugin registry claims, and a nested Maven module
    (deprecated-mailbox-core/manager) is counted under its parent directory. The
    non-vacuity assertion is a floor, not an equality, for this reason.
  * WHETHER A SECOND HOP WOULD SUCCEED. Mechanism (a) is reported as a refusal
    with its site named; this run did not follow it. Whether two hops would
    resolve those seven is a different measurement, and proposing it is a
    different change request — one that would have to argue for the dataflow
    slope FR-WS-23's own risk row exists to prevent.
